---
tags:
  - Entity
  - Creature
  - Advanced-Entity
---
- **Size**:
	- Medium
- **Type**:
	- Monstrosity
- **Alignment**:
	- Chaotic Evil
- **Armor Class**:
	- 18
- **Health**:
	- 91 (14d8+24)
- **Speed**:
	- 40ft
- **Ability Scores**:
	- **STR -** 18(+4)*
	- **DEX -** 16(+3)*
	- **CON -** 15(+2)*
	- **INT -** 13(+1)
	- **WIS -** 12(+1)
	- **CHA -** 9(-1)
- **Senses:**
	- Passive Perception: 11
- **Languages**:
	- None
- **Challenge**:
	- 5
- **Damage Vulnerabilities**:
	- Fire
- **Traits**:
	- [[Temperature Sensitivity]]
	- Extra Action
- **Actions**:
	- Slice - 1 Action
		- _Melee Weapon Attack_: +4 to hit, reach 5ft, one target.
		- _Hit:_ 1d12 + 4 slashing damage
		- [[Lacerating]](2,On Hit)
	- Puncture - 1 Action
		- _Melee Weapon Attack_: +4 to hit,  reach 5ft, one target.
		- _Hit:_ 1d12 + 4 piercing damage
		- [[Lacerating]](2,On Hit)
- **Lore**:
	- *A horrific shifting mass of metal filaments, blades, and instruments. This metal is maintained and regenerated by a circulating dark fluid. While dormant, fluid metalhorrors are hidden in a host body. They use their host to infect others, creating more metalhorrors. If detected or endangered, the metalhorror will form a jagged exoskeleton and cut its way out of the host's flesh.*  
- **Anomaly**:
	- When the first metalhorror infection occurs, every player will get 3 playing cards that are face down, all players except one will have all black cards. one player will have all red cards. Players are never to look at these cards unless otherwise stated.
	- Anytime an "invasive" action is done (Character A eats a meal cooked by character B, Character A gets medical attention by Character B, Character A shares a bed with Character B), then Character B will swap one of their cards with one of Character A's cards.
	- If a player has any red cards they are infected with a metalhorror. They cannot find metalhorrors during a surgical inspection and will have a metalhorror burst out of them during emergence.
	- Characters may perform a surgical inspection on other characters. The DM looks at the target creature's cards and reveals the cards only if one of the cards is red and the surgeon is not infected.
	- Metalhorrors emerge all at once, time of emergence is determined at the discretion of the DM.